Mr. Pappas,
would you please tell us a little bit about your
personal background and some of your experiences
before becoming involved with Mitchell Energy
and the Woodlands Corporation, and then explain
how you happened to be here today, I suppose.
First of all, I came to this country back in 1946. My
parents were Americans. I and my younger brothers
were born in Greece. And we were there during the
war. Immediately after the war, we came back. I had
finished high school there. And I went to the
University of Missouri for my arrival back to the
States. And I got a degree in civil engineering
from there. And then they took me in the army. And I
spent a couple of years in Germany. And when I came
back, I worked in New York where I got married. And I
went overseas for the employers that I worked for
two or three times. And in 1962,
I got a job with a New York developer. And they sent
me here to Texas. And that's when I met Mr.
Mitchell. Now your specialty, your work had been
in what area as an engineer? In highway design and
land development. Had you been involved in any
major real estate or new community type projects?
No. No, I had never been involved in new
communities. Development, in fact, when we were
thinking about the woodlands as a new community,
Mr. Mitchell and I We had discussions as to how we
can put a team together to do it. And he asked me
point blank if I had done it in town before. I said,
no. He said, neither have I. I said, so we're both
going to learn together, aren't we? And we've got
to pay for it, too. How did you make the Mitchell
connection originally? How did that happen? When
I came here with a developer from New York, Mr.
Mitchell and the partner of his by the name Norman
Dobbins, They were involved in housing. They had a
company by the name of Pace Center Homes. And Mr.
Dobbins was very active with the Houston Home
Builders Association. He was the president, in
fact, when I arrived here in town. What year was
that? 1962. 1962. And
as a prospective developer, the first entity that
I knocked at its door. It was the Home Builders
Association, Mr. Dobbins was the president. And
he told me that
he would be interested in knowing what we're doing
down here as far as development is concerned. And
he introduced me to Mr. Mitchell. And Mr. Mitchell
turned around and says to me, you people have the
land. I have the development or the housing
company. And I have the oil and gas. You people have
shipping. So see if you can put something together
for us. And
then we had the company I was with. We had a piece of
property, which just immediately still is,
immediately south of the Woodlands, where the
Woodlands is today. 1,400 acres of land. And we had
another 2,000 acres of land down by where
Bay, oops, the big shopping center down by Webster
Runs. Oh, near Cherry? Baybrook. Baybrook. Yeah,
Baybrook Mall. OK. 2,000 acres there. And of
course, we had about 15 acres of land across the
street from the Shamrock Hotel. And that's where I
came down here to develop. from New York. And we did
an economic survey and analysis of three tracts of
land, and with an outfit from California. And they
suggested that it was quite premature for this
tract of land south of the woodlands to be
developed. If we felt like war was imminent and
that the defense industry would be very active,
then the property south of Houston, the Web
Surround, ought to be developed. Not much of NASA
was by that time. And you knew NASA was coming. Not
when we had the money. We put the earnest money
down. No, we did not launch at NASA. That was in
August 1961. In November 1961, the NASA site was
announced, and we closed the property the 23rd of
December of the same year. Nobody did not know that
NASA would be located. In any way, they told us that
if we felt like war was imminent, that the defense
contractor would be hefty, then that site down
there would be developed. However, they felt that
it would be one industry-oriented type of a site,
and that we'd be very, very careful how we develop
it. Because at any rate, at any time where the
Defense Department felt that they were
overspending themselves, they would cut it down.
And therefore, you're going to be out. They
recommended that we go ahead and develop the site
across the street from Shamrock. However, it was
not a large enough site to create an organization
around. Yeah, that was just a couple hundred acres
or something? No, that was 15 acres. Oh, I see. 43
from Shamrock. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then I went back
to New York. I developed a high-rise apartment
building for the corporation. And then I happened
to come down here on New Year's Eve party in 1966.
And I, of course, I had a lot of friends by that time
here in Houston, Mr. Dobbins, Mr. Mitchell. And I
went up there to say hello to him. By that time, of
course, he had accumulated all this land over
here. And we talked to each other about moving down
here. At the party. That's right. No, not at the
party. After the party. Yeah. In fact, this
property over here that Mr. Mitchell purchased,
it was offered to us in New York. by a realtor by the
name Weisberger, Ernest Weisberger. And I called
my boss. He was in London at that time. He says, I'm
coming home, he says, for Thanksgiving. We'll go
down to Houston, have a look at the properties. By
that time, the Mitchell had persisted. And when I
came down here for the party, I went up to his office
to see him. Congratulated him on the purchase, and
we talked about it a little bit. Before I knew it, I
came back to Houston. That's a good story. That's
the way things happen. Well, they didn't, up to
that point, they did not have a civil engineer at
all. And they were doing, at that time, they were
doing, as far as development is concerned,
Pirates Beach and Pirates Falls. They were doing
that at that time. Do you work on those projects as
well? Do you work on those projects? Oh, yes,
absolutely. And also this facility in Aspen? Yes,
I work on that, too. So your responsibility is for?
Engineering, construction, all the real estate.
All the real estate, OK. For the corporation.
And in 1967, June 1, I moved my rear end over here. I
hope that, oh, you have to keep that up. We'll edit
it and give it back to you. I hope the hell you leave
it. Where did you live? Where did you move to? There
was no woodland. Did you live in this vicinity? Oh,
no. Physically? I still don't live here. Oh, you
don't? No, sir. I live in Houston. And there's a
story behind that. Yeah, I like good stories.
Please do. When, well, okay. Parenthetically
then, when we start putting the application for
HUD together, back in 1970, 71, 72, 71 primarily.
As I said earlier, Mr. Mitchell had never built a
new town, neither had I. So we're going to spend
some money in Water West to learn, and some other
people, like Macalester, Jim Macalester was
around at the time, some other people. So we had
gone to Macalester. Mr. Mitchell and I were going
to Columbia, Maryland. That was the first
generation of New Towns. And from there, we went to
the rest of Virginia, which was the counterpart.
And
Columbia had a population at that time about, oh, I
would say about 7,000 to 10,000 people. And of
course, Mr. Rouse, Jim Rouse, was very, very
generous with his information. He might have
instructed his key people to open up his books, you
know, any information that he needed to go ahead
and share it with us. and invited us to an open
meeting with his employees down at Pavilion, very
similar to the Cynthia Good Mitchell Pavilion
they had there, who were his guests. I spent three,
four, five days there at one time or the other. And
what impressed me was in Colombia, of course, it
was not
socially, it was very active. for the small number
of people that they had down there. We used to go to
the bar that they had on the high rise by the lake
there. And we'd see a lot of women there, men there,
messing around, moving around. In discussions,
of course, I found out that Colombia was
over-planned. Colombia was planned in such a way
as that taking all the initiative away from the
individual. They had it organized such a way as the
paint job would be done by an organization, you
know, home properties. The yard would be mined in a
certain way by the homeowners association. It was
too structured. And left a lot of time in the hands
of individuals, wives and husbands. And they,
some people, although you had to pay for all the
services. Sure. And when those costs started
hitting the pocketbook, a lot of them, they could
not necessarily be, were able to afford it. And
that brought frictions and tremendous divorce
rates. He said, in fact, I asked Mr. Ted Baker, who
was the head planner for Columbia at that time,
what the hell... That's trouble in paradise.
Yeah, what the hell happened here? He says, well, I
suggest, he says, I recommend, never live in the
place where you work. That really sunk in very,
very heavily, because 98% divorce rate, the
people who work there, they start messing around
in the same environment, you know. And they never
really separated their social life from the
business life. From the business and their family
life. And really impressive. 98% divorce rate.
That's incredible. They were all young people of
course. They were all young professionals trying
to make it. And that impressed me in the negative.
That is impressive. Something what not to do over
here. Did that idea though enter into at all the
planning I wasn't really in development at all.
Yes, it was proposed. It was set into our plan of
thinking. However, more so in my own plan, my own
family plan. But you don't want to overdo it. Yeah,
sure. I see that. And I said at that time, there's a
lot to be said about dividing or separating your
social life with your business life and your
family. That's right. And that's why I still don't
. But that's a good analysis, too. And a good
comparison of this community and the area. And of
course, for the woodlands, I personally believe
the woodlands are not over planned. I don't
either. I was just wondering. It needs to be in the
hands of the property owners to do their own thing
inside and out. Yeah. For that opportunity, at
least. Now, in the development of the terrain, the
geography, the drainage, and so forth, you were
instrumental in planning that initial
development, weren't you? I'm doing it. Yes, sir.
What is that? I haven't seen one, but if you had a job
description, what would it say? Me? Yeah. I'm an
officer in charge of engineering and
construction. And that was from the beginning.
That basically was your job description. And
that's remained constant? Yes. OK. Now, what kind
of a perception or precept or idea or goal did you
have when you went into the woodlands to set this up
as a habitable Well, we had at least, first name
Henry, right? Right. We had, I would say, two or
three years worth of very heavy interchange of
ideas with consultants. We visited numerous
sites in order to see how they were doing and what
they were doing wrong. in order to have that as an
input, at least on a large scale, to our community.
From a physical plan, nothing very much changed.
You need to provide adequate drainage in order to
avoid flooding. People love to see the rain,
sitting in their living room, rain, beautiful
water. But when they start feeling the water
through the torch going from one door through the
to the other door, they don't particularly care
for that. Yeah, a lot of the charm wears off. Sir? A
lot of the charm wears off. Well, I think the
headaches are setting in. So they do need adequate
drainage. People do not necessarily want to see
the water flow down like rivers. They don't mind
seeing the water standing like that, for example,
here. However, when the water starts getting into
their homes, then the problem with that. So you
need to provide that with drainage. Secondly,
people really don't care where you get it from as
long as every time the faucet water comes out. And
more than they care where the electricity comes
from. They want the results of the care. And once
they use that water, really nobody wants to be
around the area where the water has to be treated.
Either they want to stay away from it. They don't
want to see it. They want to see it coming out, but
they want to flush it out. They have nothing to do
with it. So by the time you start thinking of all
those things put together, and then how to
conserve those natural resources, then it
becomes an area where you need a lot of
specialists. And to that, we have to rely very
heavily in what technology, at that time, the
prevailing technology had to offer us. For
example, in the very beginning of the woodlands,
we thought we were going to do something that
nobody else had done. Purify the water that comes
out to the degree that you might want to reuse it. We
convinced some of the federal agents up there, and
they granted some and some grants, gave us some
grants in order to promote that. And we did. The
first increment of the sewer plant that we did over
here in the Woodlands, we imposed upon ourselves
the restrictions that the Water Quality Board,
Texas, and EPA at that time sought. And they told us
it's not necessary. However, we imposed that upon
ourselves. And we have already the increment of
the infrastructure in. in order to resupply the
lakes with ethanol
from the . And we were the first ones to go ahead and
install an ozonator. Ozon has a tremendous kill
power as far as bacteria is concerned, but
dissipates very quickly. But the state law and the
federal law says that when you dump ethanol into a
creek, the receiving stream has to show a residual
chlorine, which is a disinfectant, for 20
minutes. That's it. Well, ozone, although it has
10 times the kill power that chlorine has,
dissipates, however, very quickly. And
therefore, once you start analyzing the sample,
you're not going to find any residual. So we have to
overcome that. So what we did, we killed with
ozone, and then we threw in some chlorine in order
for the agency to find the residual down below. To
meet the requirement. That's correct. Which is,
it was kind of, that's paranoia, you know. And you
had demonstration plans up in Washington, D.C.
that I went to, without chemicals. It was
demonstrating to the federal agency down there
how to kill with ozone and pure oxygen. And in fact,
we drank from them effluent. You know, after it
came out, we drank it. We went up to Tahoe, Tahoe,
Nevada, yeah. And they had the same, because they
were prohibited in discharging effluent into
Lake Tahoe. Prohibited. So they had to go over the
mountain 28 miles with a horseman and create lakes
there. And then ozonate up there and some rainbow
trout this big. And they had the same principle.
But over here, we have to show residuals. And when
we came in to expand for the second time, EPA, the
people who gave us the grants originally, said,
now look, if you want our money, if you want our
money to enlarge your plant, now you have to reduce
your standards. More pollutants. Introducing
the streams, more pollutants. And that's what we
have. Those are the inconsistencies. In other
words, what they're telling you, it was a good
thought, a good idea. However, it became very
expensive in order to do that. Now, if you want our
grants and you reduce your standards, then for the
same amount of money, we can get twice as much of the
product. That's what they're telling you. So
instead of having the residual contaminants to be
10 parts per million, 10 parts per million, 10
parts per million. They say now you can have 20
parts per million, 20 parts per million, 20 parts
per million contaminants in the effluent coming
out. Because in order to reduce, to take the last
5%, 5% out, it requires double the amount of money,
or triple maybe. Because now they're getting down
to the refinements, filtration, and you know. of a
very high tech type of treatment. Tertiary
treatment, really, that's what I'm talking
about. And they were saying, excuse me for a
minute, not to conclude it. They say to you that
since the stream does not require, is healthy
enough not to require this extensive treatment,
therefore reduce the amount of treatment so we can
do without that high expense. So we have reduced
it. But your basic plan was very, you might say,
progressive or, way ahead of anybody else's.
There was nothing else, especially in the state,
definitely. Lake Tahoe had one. Lake Tahoe.
Tahoe, the seat of Tahoe had one, and of course
there was an experimental thing down in
Washington, D.C., and we were not advanced. Well,
did this come primarily through your consultants
or through you, this conception?
No, it was a joint type of thinking through a round
table type of discussions. He was a Mr.
Rice University, the environmental engineering
department. He was acting as our consultant. A guy
by the name of . He was a PhD in industrial waste. And
he was the person who originally designed
conceptually. SMB engineers from Houston, who
are engineers with petrochemical industry,
designed the actual plant, SMB engineers. And it
was built by LEM, L-E-M, contractors. What was
your main job then, once you began to develop the
plot and the plan, I guess, primarily contracting
and letting out contracts and supervising the
construction and so forth? Those are contracts.
Yeah. I just signed them today. This is what
ensured the contracts for them. I've been reading
about that, yes. This over here, yes. $327 million
job. And this also is $370 million job. A million
books? Yeah. $370 million. Each one of them. Those
are for infrastructure facilities that water,
sewer, and drainage pipe on the ground. What I was
speaking before is the capacity in the plant.
Right. That's interesting. What changes have
been wrought or created as this first phase of the
Woodlands begins to transition from operation by
the Woodlands Corporation to operation by the
local citizenry?
How is that going to affect what you do, or will it at
all? Well, it will not. It will not. Because
what you are referring to, I believe, correct me if
I'm open the tenure, you're talking about the WCA
taking over. Community association. Yeah,
community association taking over. The
community association really has nothing to do
with the development process. The development
process, that is totally in the hands of the
developer, the Woodland Corporation. The
community association will operate and manage
all the public facilities other than wet
utilities. They will operate the parks, they will
operate the lakes, maintain and operate the
lakes. So in other words, the Woodlands
Corporation will retain
control and operative management of, like, the
utility districts and... The utility district,
of course, that's more or less like a
semi-corporation. It's a public entity. The
members of the board are elected by the people that
they serve. So it is more or less the governmental
entity. That's what it is. WCA will have the
responsibility of operating and maintaining
public facilities like parks, like pedestrian,
you know, bike and kite trails, and common areas,
common areas to own. That's the kind of a function
they have. Also, they have a function in
architectural controls whereby if you want to
enlarge your house, if you want to alter, you know,
your property, you have to go through that kind of a
a review, architectural review committee, in
order to be able to alter, make changes. And that's
the function WCA has. Back in 1992, the Woodlands
would lose the majority vote in that
organization. That's what you're referring to.
That has nothing to do with the development
process. The land development process is a part
that's happened from it. This is where we take
excuse. And where we take the raw land, the raw
land, and we transform it, we develop it to the
point that will receive a dwelling unit or a store
on the, you know, the above ground type of
facility. When you do that, incidentally, do you
contract out surveyors and those sub kind of, in
other words, there's not an in-house facility? of
people to do that. No. Let me give you the process,
you know, that we follow through. When we break up,
when we project that our needs, and we have a
five-year projection. The first year is much more
definite than the fifth year. We say that we are
going to produce next five years 5,000 lots. We'll
have 300 acres of commercial real estate and the
likes. We have our planners that set up with, of
course, with the marketing people, input of
whatever they prognosticate. Of course, we have a
market analysis first. That's the first thing.
What the hell is the market going to be like for the
next five years on a per year basis? Most
definitely, again, the first year and then next
five years. And we say to ourselves, all right, now
we're going to develop these thousand acres next
year out of these 5,000 acres. In order to develop
these 5,000 acres, you cannot look at one year at a
time because some facilities, they take more than
one year to design, let alone to build. So we have,
in our midst, we have a schedule of things that we
need to do. For example, how to provide water for
the facilities. If I am to develop 1,000 lots next
year, or 5,000 lots altogether, I would need the
equivalent of two wells to drill, to drill two
wells. To drill two wells will cost me half a
million dollars, only for the wells. Now, to bring
that water into a central plant to disinfect and
put it in storage. Then it would require an
elevated storage tank of about half a million
dollars. Half a million gallons, half a million
dollars worth. And then booster pumps in order to
have the water pressure when I deliver it to your
house, at least with 60 pound pressure. So I have to
push it through the booster pump. So the whole
thing might cost me about $2 million. And I need two
years to build in order to provide for you two years
hence. Two years hence. And then, of course, that
followed. If you don't build a storage tank only to
accommodate 1,000 lots, you've got to build for
5,000. So you have some elements of the
infrastructure that out there are waiting for the
future development. When you build a sewer plant,
you don't build for one year synchronously. It
takes you through the permitting process. It
takes you two or three years. So you can see how
ahead of yourself you have to be. Put a lot up front,
money and planning and everything else. Yeah. And
that is small amounts. The planning and the
engineering part ahead of development is a small
amount. Once you start getting into the ground
with 56-inch diameter pipes and 72-inch pipes,
six feet. taller than you are. You can see 20 feet in
the ground. You can see how much. Because you're
not going to put a 12-inch pipe in there to
accommodate only that subdivision. You've got to
think ahead and see what else is going to be coming
in to this . This more or less will demonstrate
more. Can I pick it up there? Yeah, I think so. so you
will understand what your evidence is. When we
first started thinking about the woodlands, we
looked at it, you know, how we're going to service
it. So at that time, the thinking in the
engineering profession was when you have the
possibility of contaminating something by
breakdown, you will be better off to happen in
small increments. So it's very unlikely that
you're going to have a breakdown in more than one
unit. Therefore, if you are going to produce, say,
30 million gallons per day, ultimately, 30
million gallons per day effluent, if you have it
all located in one place and you have a breakdown,
30 million gallons a day of untreated sewer will
come down as a big slug. What are you going to do? You
can't stop it. People are going to keep flushing
their toilets, whether the plant works or not. So
the thinking back there was to break it down to
smaller increments. So if we have one break down,
we're going to have 5 million gallons, and 30
million gallons go astray. And so the thinking at
that time was to have about two or three sewer
plants on Spring Creek, and then have another two
or three down on Panther Creek, which is this
destination. And that's how we proceeded at that
time. However, very quickly, it became apparent
that with all the safeguards that we have, it's
very unlikely that you're going to have a major
breakdown, even in a large plan. Because in a large
plan, the economy works in your favor. And then
with a large plan, you can afford to do other things
that you cannot afford to do in small plants.
Redundant systems. That is correct. That is
correct. Like, for example, auxiliary power. If
you have a breakdown, say, with commercial power
of the utilities, then you can have an auxiliary
power. And because of those things, it became very
apparent later on, and that would be engineering
thinking of the time. And then now we have it down to
sewer plants, to major plants for the woodlands.
One will be something like 12 million gallons per
day, ultimately. And another one will be about 18
million gallons per day. Follow me? Yeah. Now,
because of their location, because of their
location, one would be located or would have
already been designed to be located in this place
over here, like the 18 million gallon plant. Like
you can see, you see what will have to, will serve
all this area of the . Therefore, the first piece of
pipe that you put over here will have to be large
enough to accommodate it. Everything that comes
in and out of there. You follow me? Sure. The other
way around now, if you were going to develop over
here and the location was over here, then you
develop over here, now you have to string all these
pipes all the way down there because the first, how
is it served, has to be connected to the sewer
plant. So you see that the economics, you know,
dictate that you go from the low land to the upper
land. Oh, because of that. All right. Did, in, say,
the first phase of development, say, through the
1970s, did basically the planning match the
reality? Did things develop as you thought they
should, pretty much? Yeah, in a much slower pace.
Yeah, OK. Our projections at that time Of course,
the economy of this region over here, there was no
stopping. Whatever you put down on the ground, it
was sold with a profit, whether you knew how to do it
or not. The market was so healthy. And we were
thinking of finishing up the wilderness in 20
years, 20, 30 years maximum. We knew, of course,
there would be remnants, strategically located
parcels of property. that we would not get to as far
as marketing is concerned, but those values that
were going up. So we thought the development
process would finish in about 20, 30 years. But
that was one of the assumptions we had made back
then that did not materialize. Other than the
pace, has there been much change in direction in
the planning and processes? Not very much. Not
very much at all. Yes, there are some refinements
that we found to be more acceptable in the
marketplace. Like what? We're market-driven.
Whatever product we create and we manufacture has
to be sold, has to be accepted in the marketplace.
For example, what? We thought that we would have
small, narrow, private streets with open ditches
for drainage, for example. The marketplace
dictates something different. They want you to
have curb and gutter streets, especially in the
streets that they front on the house, where the
house fronts to. You can go down to Memorial area,
and you'll find that open ditches are acceptable.
However, we thought the same thing over here.
However, we do not, this area, the Woodlands is not
Memorial. We don't have the large lots that we, you
know, down there. I have a lot down there, one and a
quarter acres. Here, when you have a 50, 60,
70-foot lot, and you have open ditches, then you
have a conglomeration of little culverts, you
know. And that will be 20 feet. That will be a third
of your lot from it, or something similar to that.
And then every 60 feet or 50 feet, you have another
one, just like that. And you can see, you know, that
will not be conducive to a nice environment. So
those are the things that we learned, you know,
from the marketplaces. Of course, our major
thoroughfares, they're still open beaches. The
original principle of slowing the water down and
make an amenity out of this water conveyance
system still persists here in the wilderness
today. However, those are the small things,
refinement, that I'm speaking of, like curve .
What was the rationale behind the paving bricks at
the intersection? Oh, that's a visual amenity.
That's all the arrival aesthetics. Strictly
aesthetic. In order to give you a notion of
arrival. Now, pay attention. You have arrived to a
different kind of a place. It's nice. When you move
into the 80s now, say, 83, 84, the economy has
turned down around here. Could you sort of explain
what's happening here in the 1980s and what your
work is and how it may have differed, say, from
earlier activities? We started playing very,
very close to the vest. Then our projections, they
were a little bit more conservative. because we
knew that the market was not here. We were
reacting, and we were able to react to the market
more so than anybody else because we, at that time,
we decided, Mr. Mitchell decided, management
decided, to be ready to respond to the market
needs. And therefore, we had our engineering done
in advance. We had our plans done in advance when
there was a need for a specific type of a product to
be put out in the marketplace, we're able to react
very quickly. Because the woodland is not a
subdivision. It's not a 20x subdivision. It's not
a 100x subdivision. It's not a 300x subdivision,
where the subdiviser will say, now I'm going to
have a product over here, 65 foot large, 120 foot in
depth, and I'm going to have the product to market
from $120,000 to $150,000. That's not the kind of
an area we have over here. We have anywhere from low
cost housing and apartments and town houses all
the way to estates. There might be better than 25
type of categories that we have to produce. Now to
have inventory, readily made inventory for all
those 25 types of lots, 22 types of lots that you
have. And to maintain a readily made inventory,
that would be at even, say, $10,000 per lot. You are
out there $20 million at any one time. Money is
waiting for the marketplace. And that can be very
strange. At 10% interest per year, you're talking
about $2 million in interest that you're paying on
inventory that is sitting there. So we are left
with a lot of time to be able to respond to the
market. And having done And having done the
engineering, within 90 days, I think, we could be
in production. Yeah. But now you, there was a
distinct turnaround here earlier than most
places. In fact, you never lost the kind of market
loss that other areas in Houston did in terms of
housing. No. That's correct. We did not feel the
impact as heavily as they did. Because we were
able, we had the market over here that had all kinds
of It was across the spectrum. It was very wide.
While those people, they were reflecting to one
market or the other. And of course, we were selling
over here a way of life. We were not selling a lot of
house. We were selling a way of life. And I think
that was more acceptable to the little, weak
market that was there. It was more so attractive to
the people. Because they used to go someplace else
to buy something. And then before you knew it, even
that investment would dissipate, would
disappear. While here, at least, they were buying
a way of life. And that's why the prices and the
values would . It's the downside of the economy.
And that was not only prevalent here.
master plan community spared quite well compared
to the rest of the world. The good old days, anybody
who had the money in his pocket, 100 acres of land,
became a developer. The way a carpenter became a
home builder, you know, because he had a couple of
dollars and the bank would fund him. When the hard
times came down, either you have it or you don't
have it. And thank God that we were able to manage
our affairs in such a way to be able to withstand
the... Now, in 88, 89, you're just getting into a
new surge, apparently, reading in the
newspapers, at least. You've passed, what, the
billion-dollar sales mark in the woodlands. So
are you now in a period, as you foresee, of rather
rapid growth and expansion? Again, since we're
the products of... the ups and downs of the
economy, all of us here, we have witnessed the good
days and the bad days. We don't get away with the
notion that there is no end to the good times. We
welcome them. We take advantage of them. We're a
very small outfit over here. We're a service, more
or less a service company. To the woodlands. That
is correct. We do the engineering, the
construction, profit centers. When they say that
we want to have 1,000 lots in there, and they tell us
where, then we'll go ahead and produce it for them
at the time that they want it. And as such, we
maintain a very small
staff. We are about seven people. So really,
you're a management group in yourself. Right. And
we have engineers. who really, what we do, we
manage the engineering firms that we hire from the
outside. And we manage the contractors that we
feed the jobs through. And we supervise their
work, and we inspect their work, they accept their
work, and we pay for their work. And we are the eyes
and the ears, you know, of the corporation.
Absolutely. And over the years, we know what the
profit centers want, the consistency of the
quality. Our contractors know what the hell we're
going to be looking at. And they don't try to. And we
have a select group of contractors that they know
that when they come over here to work, what we are
going to be insisting on, what we're going to be
looking at. And they know that their money, once
they finish the job, their money is going to be in
the bank. And that's very important to a
contractor. That's very important to engineers.
To engineers, for example. that they try to
maintain some kind of clientele that can rely on
for future work. And those people, they know
exactly what we need. We have three or four
engineering firms that we work with at any one time
and at all times. And their plans are consistent
with what we want the product to look like. I've
been dictated to us by the marketplace, by those
people who have to sell the product. But we want the
street 24 foot wide, 24 foot wide, and that's so
specified. Who's on this management team? What's
the composition of it? Well, the president, Mr.
Galatas, the residential, the senior vice
president of residential, the senior vice
president of commercial industry, the senior
vice president of planning, the senior vice
president of engineering. That's the staff. And
the marketing team. Are you now pretty well
preoccupied with the expansion of the woodlands
into the new area? Yes, sir. And with the mall
commercial? Yes, sir. There it is. Now, the
Woodlands Corporation itself is actually doing
the ski resort in Colorado. Yes, sir. And you're
doing the extension in Galveston, right?
Pirate's Cove, Sunbird Beach, and Indian Beach
here. Yeah. And you're in the middle of all of that
as well as the woodland. Yes, sir.